learn.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Engineering Subjects
subtitle: List of Courses Enrolled in
---

This page is currently under maintenance.


<!--
My main goal at teaching is that the students seek a deep understanding of new or relevant concepts, which I pursue by encouraging active learning and bringing to the classroom real world problems. It is important that students not only learn and review statistical concepts, but also grasp their relevance and need to solve meaningful problems.

# [STAT450](https://courses.students.ubc.ca/cs/main?pname=subjarea&tname=subjareas&req=3&dept=STAT&course=450): Case Studies in Statistics

Statistics undergraduate students taking this case studies capstone course analyze real data provided by a researcher from a different discipline. More information on cases eligibility is available [here](https://www.stat.ubc.ca/how-can-you-get-help-your-data). I've been teaching this course since 2013. The main learning objective of the course are for students:

-	to critically appraise study designs and data
-	to identify appropriate choices of statistical methodologies and apply them to solve real problems
-	to develop skills of working with non-statisticians
-	to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing, with statisticians and non-statisticians

# [STAT550](https://courses.students.ubc.ca/cs/main?pname=subjarea&tname=subjareas&req=3&dept=STAT&course=550): Techniques of Statistical Consulting

The overall objective of this course is to train students to develop the skills required to work with non-statisticians either as consultant or collaborator. Students mentor and supervise underdergraduate students from STAT450 on their consulting case study. They also work independently on an extension of the analysis provided by STAT450. The communciation among students from both courses, instructors and clients is maintained through discussions in a private Github/Gitlab  repository and/or Slack. I have been teaching this course, in coordination with STAT450, since 2015. Specific learning objectives are to develop:

-	the techniques required to attain a clear understanding of a client's needs
-	understanding of the processes involved in solving statistical problems
-	oral and written skills that facilitate communication with clients
-	working knowledge to participate in interdisciplinary collaborative models and statistical consulting

# [STAT540](https://stat540-ubc.github.io): Statistical Methods for High Dimensional Biology

This course aims to provide the students with modern and up-to-date statistical tools to analyze genomics and epigenetics data, including empirical bayes linear models estimation and inference, principal component analysis, cluster analysis, classification and regularized regression, gene set analysis, resampling and bootstrapping. I taught this course from 2013 till 2015. In 2015, I've built the Github organization repository that hosts the course website, students repositories, and all the course material. The learning objectives of the course are:

- to develop a primary background in molecular biology and statistical techniques that are particularly relevant for the analysis of genomics data
- to examine typical problems of high throughput biological data
- to explore, visualize, and analyze large datasets emphasizing on the reproducibility of the analysis
- to promote interdisciplinary and collaborative work

-->

# **UNIVERSITY OF BRITISH COLUMBIA**
## B.A.Sc. in Engineering Physics

## Winter Session (2017-2018)
### Semester 2

**MECH 520** - *Control, Sensors, and Actuators*

Review of control, instrumentation and design. Performance specification of control components, component matching, error analysis. Operating principles, analysis, modelling, design considerations of control sensors and actuators such as analog sensors for motion measurement, digital transducers, stepper motors, DC motors, induction motors, synchronous motors, and hydraulic actuators. Control techniques pertaining to actuators. Applications.

**ELEC 441** - *Control System Design*

Relationships between system parameters and system responses for linear control systems. Design specifications for dynamic and steady-state performance and realization by use of feedback control. Robust design of PID controllers and multivariable controllers.

**ELEC 342** - *Electro-Mechanical Energy Conversion and Transmission*

Three phase power; transformers and harmonics; magnetic materials and circuits, electro-mechanical energy conversion; DC machines; rotating magnetic field, AC induction and synchronous machines; variable frequency operation, brushless DC machines; stepper and single-phase motors.

**PHYS 401** - *Electromagnetic Theory*

Applications of Maxwell's theory. Wave propagation in dielectrics, conductors and plasmas, wave guides, radiation, antennae, and special relativity.

**PHYS 403** - *Statistical Mechanics*

Principles and applications of statistical mechanics. Ideal gases, degenerate Fermi gases, Bose-Einstein condensation, black body radiation, fluctuations and phase transitions.

**PHYS 408** - *Optics*

Principles and applications of optical physics. Interference, diffraction, coherence, polarization, Fresnel relations, optical coatings, waves in dielectric media, Gaussian beams, waveguides, optical cavities, lasers, fibre optics, and Fourier optics.


### Semester 1

**MATH 406** - *Variational and Approximate Methods in Applied Mathematics*

Variational and Green's function methods for ordinary and partial differential equations, introduction to finite difference, finite element and boundary element methods.

**ENPH 479** - *Engineering Physics Project II*

Projects designed to give students research development and design experience. Projects are provided by research faculty in Science and Engineering and from local industry.

**MECH 463** - *Mechanical Vibrations*

Theory of vibration of mechanical systems. Undamped 1 degree of freedom vibration, forced vibrations and resonance, damping, multiple degree of freedom systems, mode shapes and orthogonality, continuous systems, vibration measuring instruments and frequency spectrum analysis.

**ENPH 352** - *Laboratory Techniques in Physics*

Some of the experiments will be based on the lecture material for PHYS 301. Other techniques and subjects will also be covered.

**ELEC 481** - *Economic Analysis of Engineering Projects*

Time-money relationships; economic analysis of alternatives including the effects of interest rates, inflation, depreciation, taxation and uncertainty; cost estimation and budgeting; financial analysis of engineering operations.

**APSC 450** - *Professional Engineering Practice*

Legislation affecting the practice of engineering; ethical principles and responsibilities. Management of engineering enterprises; labour relations, safety and environmental legislation.

**GERM 100** - *Beginners' German I*

Introduction to the language. Ability to communicate accurately in a variety of everyday situations.


## Summer Session (2017)

**APSC 410** - *Co-operative Work Placement*

Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the Faculty of Applied Science and the Co-operative Education Program.


## Winter Session (2016-2017)

### Semester 2

**MECH 464** - *Industrial Robotics*

Definition and classification of industrial robotic devices. Selection and implementation issues. Workcell environments. Forward and inverse kinematics, dynamics, trajectory planning. Sensing and manipulation tasks. Control architectures.

**MECH 375** - *Heat Transfer*

Steady and transient conduction. Radiation heat transfer. Convective heat and mass transfer in pipes and from external surfaces. Design of heat exchangers.

**ELEC 341** - *Systems and Control*

Continuous time system analysis by Laplace transforms; system modeling by transfer function and state space methods; feedback, stability and sensitivity; control design; frequency domain analysis.

**ENPH 459** - *Engineering Physics Project I*

Project planning, management and reporting. This course involves writing a project proposal, carrying out an open-ended Engineering project, and reporting the results both orally and in writing.

**ELEC 301** - *Electronic Circuits*

Analysis and design of electronic circuits; biasing of and small-signal models for transistors; frequency response of amplifiers; feedback and stability aspects of amplifier design; OP-AMPs; active filters; oscillators; IC specification and selection.

**MATH 400** - *Applied Partial Differential Equations*

Separation of variables, first order equations, Sturm-Liouville theory, integral transform methods.

**MATH 318** - *Probability with Physical Applications*

Random variables, discrete and continuous distributions. Random walk, Markov chains, Monte Carlo methods. Characteristic functions, limit laws.


### Semester 1

**APSC 310** - *Co-operative Work Placement*

Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the Faculty of Applied Science and the Co-operative Education Program.

**ENPH 459** - *Engineering Physics Project I*

Project planning, management and reporting. This course involves writing a project proposal, carrying out an open-ended Engineering project, and reporting the results both orally and in writing.


## Summer Session (2016)

**APSC 210** - *Co-operative Work Placement*

Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the Faculty of Applied Science and the Co-operative Education Program.

**EXCH 381** - *Study Abroad Program*

## Winter Session (2015-2016)

### Semester 2

**PHYS 350** - *Applications of Classical Mechanics*

Review of principles. Particle mechanics: Euler's equations, tops and gyroscopes, motion of the Earth, Lagrangian and Hamiltonian methods. Variational principles in optics and mechanics, Liouville's theorem and statistical mechanics. The relationship between classical and quantum mechanics.

**CPEN 312** - *Digital Systems and Microcomputers*

Data representation in digital computers; boolean algebra; the design and optimization and implementation of combinatorial and sequential circuits; modern digital circuit technologies; memory and programmable logic devices; organization and operation of microcomputers; data/address bus organization; input-output interfacing.

**MECH 280** - *Introduction to Fluid Mechanics*

Fluid properties; statics; kinematics, dynamics, energy, and momentum principles for control volumes; dimensional analysis and similarity; laminar and turbulent flow; pipe flow; principles of centrifugal pumps.

**APSC 278** - *Engineering Materials*

Atomic bonding; crystal structures and imperfections; properties of metals, ceramics, polymers, wood, concrete and fibre composite materials; selection of materials; corrosion; mechanical testing and heat treatment.

**APSC 279** - *Engineering Materials Laboratory*

Atomic bonding; crystal structures and imperfections; properties of metals, ceramics, polymers, wood, concrete and fibre composite materials; selection of materials; corrosion; mechanical testing and heat treatment.

**MATH 305** - *Applied Complex Analysis*

Functions of a complex variable, Cauchy-Riemann equations, contour integration, Laurent series, residues, integrals of multi-valued functions, Fourier transforms.

**PHYS 304** - *Introduction to Quantum Mechanics*

Principles and applications of quantum mechanics, wave mechanics, the Schroedinger equation, expectation values, Hermitian operators, commuting observables, one-dimensional systems, harmonic oscillators, angular momentum, three dimensional systems, time dependent perturbations.


### Semester 1

**MATH 257** - *Partial Differential Equations*

Introduction to partial differential equations; Fourier series; the heat, wave and potential equations; boundary-value problems; numerical methods.

**MECH 325** - *Mechanical Design I*

Selection of flexible drives, bearings, hydraulic system components, and couplings. Design of bolted joints and power screws. Design and selection of gears, gear trains, and mechanisms.

**MECH 326** - *Mechanical Design II*

Design of shafts and welded joints. Fatigue and fracture considerations in design: failure types, failure under static and dynamic loading, fatigue failure, crack initiation, and propagation. Introduction to the FEM in mechanical design.

**MECH 360** - *Mechanics of Materials*

Beam deflections, singularity functions; use of tabulated solutions; column buckling; Castigliano's theorem, statically indeterminate beams, bending of beams with asymmetric cross-sections, shear centre; principal stresses and stress invariants in three dimensions.

**PHYS 301** - *Electricity and Magnetism*

Maxwell's equations and their applications, electrical fields and potentials of static charge distributions, current, fields of moving charges, magnetic fields, electromagnetic induction.

**ELEC 221** - *Signals and Systems*

Complex numbers, LTI systems, convolution sum, discrete-time Fourier series and transforms, z-transform, sampling, introduction to filtering and modulation, feedback systems, stability.

**CONS 210** - *Visualizing Climate Change*

Introduction to climate change through the lens of local landscapes and future scenarios, using visual media to communicate the underlying science and psychology, and engage communities in local climate change solutions.


## Summer Session (2015)

**PHYS 250** - *Introduction to Modern Physics*

Wave-particle duality of matter, special relativity, processes in atomic, nuclear and solid state, and introduction to quantum mechanical devices and techniques.

**ENPH 253** - *Introduction to Instrument Design*

Practice in engineering design and instrument development including mechanical and electrical design, and communications with sensors, actuators. Micro-controller implementation and system integration. Engineering design review process and presentations. Engineering communication in design and product release.

**ENPH 257** - *Heat and Thermodynamics*

Thermometry, thermal properties of matter; heat transfer by conduction; convection and radiation; kinetic theory of gases and gas laws; heat engines; refrigeration; change of state; first and second laws of thermodynamics.

**ENPH 270** - *Mechanics II*

Dynamics: systems of particles, kinematics and kinetics of rigid bodies (plane motion), energy and momentum, rotating coordinates.

**MATH 307** - *Applied Linear Algebra*

Applications of linear algebra to problems in science and engineering; use of computer algebra systems for solving problems in linear algebra.


## Winter Session (2014-2015)

### Semester 2

**APSC 110** - *Co-operative Work Placement*

Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the Faculty of Applied Science and the Co-operative Education Program.

### Semester 1

**MATH 255** - *Ordinary Differential Equations*

Review of linear systems; nonlinear equations and applications; phase plane analysis; Laplace transforms; numerical methods.

**MATH 217** - *Multivariable and Vector Calculus*

Partial differentiation, extreme values, multiple integration, vector fields, line and surface integrals, the divergence theorem, Green's and Stokes' theorems. Intended for students in Honours Physics and Engineering Physics.

**MECH 260** - *Introduction to Mechanics of Materials*

Statically determinate frames and trusses; normal and shear stresses and strains; shear force and bending moment diagrams; theory of beam bending, torsion of circular rods; transformation of stress and strain in two and three dimensions, Mohr's circle; yield and ultimate failure criteria.

**EECE 252** - *Linear Circuits*

Basic concepts and analysis techniques in the context of electric and electronic circuits. Treatment of RLC circuits, phasors, op-amps. Introduction to nonlinear circuit elements.

**ENPH 259** - *Experimental Techniques*

Basic experimental techniques in acquisition, analysis, and presentation and communication of data and technical results.

**EECE 210** - *Principles of Software Construction*

Design, implementation, reasoning about software systems: abstraction and specification of software, testing, verification, abstract data types, object-oriented design, type hierarchies, concurrent software design. Course taught in Java.



## Summer Session (2014)

**PHIL 101** - *Introduction to Philosophy*

Basic problems and methods of philosophy. Topics such as the nature and scope of human knowledge, the existence of God, and the relationship between mind and body.

## Winter Session (2013-2014)

Semester 2

**PHYS 170** - *Mechanics I*

Statics of particles, equilibrium or rigid bodies, rigid body statics and internal forces, trusses; kinematics: rectilinear motion; dynamics: Newton's second law, friction, impulse, momentum, work and energy.

**MATH 152** - *Linear Systems*

2D and 3D geometry, vectors and matrices, eigenvalues and vibration, physical applications. Laboratories demonstrate computer solutions of large systems.

**MATH 101** - *Integral Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering*

The definite integral, integration techniques, applications, modeling, infinite series.

**PHYS 153** - *Elements of Physics*

Thermometry, thermal properties of matter, heat, oscillations, waves, sound, wave optics; geometrical optics, elementary electricity and magnetism, simple DC and AC circuits.

**APSC 150** - *Engineering Case Studies*

Application of scientific principles and technical knowledge to practical problems. Introduction to the engineering design process and to engineering graphics.


### Semester 1

**APSC 122** - *Introduction to Engineering*

Non-credit course designed to introduce students to Engineering. Information on the Faculty, the profession and the particular skills and type of work done by practicing engineers in different disciplines.

**APSC 160** - *Introduction to Computation in Engineering Design*

Analysis and simulation, laboratory data acquisition and processing, measurement interfaces, engineering tools, computer systems organization, programming languages.

**MATH 100** - *Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering*

Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization.

**PHYS 153** - *Elements of Physics*

Thermometry, thermal properties of matter, heat, oscillations, waves, sound, wave optics; geometrical optics, elementary electricity and magnetism, simple DC and AC circuits.

**CHEM 154** - *Chemistry for Engineering*

Chemical bonding, properties of matter. Chemical thermodynamics with applications to phase equilibria, aqueous equilibria and electrochemistry. Processes at surfaces.

**ENGL 112** - *Strategies for University Writing*

Study and application of the principles of university-level discourse, with emphasis on expository and persuasive writing. Essays and exercises are required.


## Started school at the University of British Columbia
## September 2013

Commit message:

added formalities to the courses page

learn.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Engineering Subjects
subtitle: List of Courses Enrolled in
---

What follows is a compilation of all of the university courses I have taken or am currently enrolled in. These courses are in order of most recent to least recent.

<!--
My main goal at teaching is that the students seek a deep understanding of new or relevant concepts, which I pursue by encouraging active learning and bringing to the classroom real world problems. It is important that students not only learn and review statistical concepts, but also grasp their relevance and need to solve meaningful problems.

# [STAT450](https://courses.students.ubc.ca/cs/main?pname=subjarea&tname=subjareas&req=3&dept=STAT&course=450): Case Studies in Statistics

Statistics undergraduate students taking this case studies capstone course analyze real data provided by a researcher from a different discipline. More information on cases eligibility is available [here](https://www.stat.ubc.ca/how-can-you-get-help-your-data). I've been teaching this course since 2013. The main learning objective of the course are for students:

-	to critically appraise study designs and data
-	to identify appropriate choices of statistical methodologies and apply them to solve real problems
-	to develop skills of working with non-statisticians
-	to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing, with statisticians and non-statisticians

# [STAT550](https://courses.students.ubc.ca/cs/main?pname=subjarea&tname=subjareas&req=3&dept=STAT&course=550): Techniques of Statistical Consulting

The overall objective of this course is to train students to develop the skills required to work with non-statisticians either as consultant or collaborator. Students mentor and supervise underdergraduate students from STAT450 on their consulting case study. They also work independently on an extension of the analysis provided by STAT450. The communciation among students from both courses, instructors and clients is maintained through discussions in a private Github/Gitlab  repository and/or Slack. I have been teaching this course, in coordination with STAT450, since 2015. Specific learning objectives are to develop:

-	the techniques required to attain a clear understanding of a client's needs
-	understanding of the processes involved in solving statistical problems
-	oral and written skills that facilitate communication with clients
-	working knowledge to participate in interdisciplinary collaborative models and statistical consulting

# [STAT540](https://stat540-ubc.github.io): Statistical Methods for High Dimensional Biology

This course aims to provide the students with modern and up-to-date statistical tools to analyze genomics and epigenetics data, including empirical bayes linear models estimation and inference, principal component analysis, cluster analysis, classification and regularized regression, gene set analysis, resampling and bootstrapping. I taught this course from 2013 till 2015. In 2015, I've built the Github organization repository that hosts the course website, students repositories, and all the course material. The learning objectives of the course are:

- to develop a primary background in molecular biology and statistical techniques that are particularly relevant for the analysis of genomics data
- to examine typical problems of high throughput biological data
- to explore, visualize, and analyze large datasets emphasizing on the reproducibility of the analysis
- to promote interdisciplinary and collaborative work

-->

# **UNIVERSITY OF BRITISH COLUMBIA**
## B.A.Sc. in Engineering Physics

The following courses are from my undergraduate degree.

## Winter Session (2017-2018)
### Semester 2

**MECH 520** - *Control, Sensors, and Actuators*

Review of control, instrumentation and design. Performance specification of control components, component matching, error analysis. Operating principles, analysis, modelling, design considerations of control sensors and actuators such as analog sensors for motion measurement, digital transducers, stepper motors, DC motors, induction motors, synchronous motors, and hydraulic actuators. Control techniques pertaining to actuators. Applications.

**ELEC 441** - *Control System Design*

Relationships between system parameters and system responses for linear control systems. Design specifications for dynamic and steady-state performance and realization by use of feedback control. Robust design of PID controllers and multivariable controllers.

**ELEC 342** - *Electro-Mechanical Energy Conversion and Transmission*

Three phase power; transformers and harmonics; magnetic materials and circuits, electro-mechanical energy conversion; DC machines; rotating magnetic field, AC induction and synchronous machines; variable frequency operation, brushless DC machines; stepper and single-phase motors.

**PHYS 401** - *Electromagnetic Theory*

Applications of Maxwell's theory. Wave propagation in dielectrics, conductors and plasmas, wave guides, radiation, antennae, and special relativity.

**PHYS 403** - *Statistical Mechanics*

Principles and applications of statistical mechanics. Ideal gases, degenerate Fermi gases, Bose-Einstein condensation, black body radiation, fluctuations and phase transitions.

**PHYS 408** - *Optics*

Principles and applications of optical physics. Interference, diffraction, coherence, polarization, Fresnel relations, optical coatings, waves in dielectric media, Gaussian beams, waveguides, optical cavities, lasers, fibre optics, and Fourier optics.


### Semester 1

**MATH 406** - *Variational and Approximate Methods in Applied Mathematics*

Variational and Green's function methods for ordinary and partial differential equations, introduction to finite difference, finite element and boundary element methods.

**ENPH 479** - *Engineering Physics Project II*

Projects designed to give students research development and design experience. Projects are provided by research faculty in Science and Engineering and from local industry.

**MECH 463** - *Mechanical Vibrations*

Theory of vibration of mechanical systems. Undamped 1 degree of freedom vibration, forced vibrations and resonance, damping, multiple degree of freedom systems, mode shapes and orthogonality, continuous systems, vibration measuring instruments and frequency spectrum analysis.

**ENPH 352** - *Laboratory Techniques in Physics*

Some of the experiments will be based on the lecture material for PHYS 301. Other techniques and subjects will also be covered.

**ELEC 481** - *Economic Analysis of Engineering Projects*

Time-money relationships; economic analysis of alternatives including the effects of interest rates, inflation, depreciation, taxation and uncertainty; cost estimation and budgeting; financial analysis of engineering operations.

**APSC 450** - *Professional Engineering Practice*

Legislation affecting the practice of engineering; ethical principles and responsibilities. Management of engineering enterprises; labour relations, safety and environmental legislation.

**GERM 100** - *Beginners' German I*

Introduction to the language. Ability to communicate accurately in a variety of everyday situations.


## Summer Session (2017)

**APSC 410** - *Co-operative Work Placement*

Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the Faculty of Applied Science and the Co-operative Education Program.


## Winter Session (2016-2017)

### Semester 2

**MECH 464** - *Industrial Robotics*

Definition and classification of industrial robotic devices. Selection and implementation issues. Workcell environments. Forward and inverse kinematics, dynamics, trajectory planning. Sensing and manipulation tasks. Control architectures.

**MECH 375** - *Heat Transfer*

Steady and transient conduction. Radiation heat transfer. Convective heat and mass transfer in pipes and from external surfaces. Design of heat exchangers.

**ELEC 341** - *Systems and Control*

Continuous time system analysis by Laplace transforms; system modeling by transfer function and state space methods; feedback, stability and sensitivity; control design; frequency domain analysis.

**ENPH 459** - *Engineering Physics Project I*

Project planning, management and reporting. This course involves writing a project proposal, carrying out an open-ended Engineering project, and reporting the results both orally and in writing.

**ELEC 301** - *Electronic Circuits*

Analysis and design of electronic circuits; biasing of and small-signal models for transistors; frequency response of amplifiers; feedback and stability aspects of amplifier design; OP-AMPs; active filters; oscillators; IC specification and selection.

**MATH 400** - *Applied Partial Differential Equations*

Separation of variables, first order equations, Sturm-Liouville theory, integral transform methods.

**MATH 318** - *Probability with Physical Applications*

Random variables, discrete and continuous distributions. Random walk, Markov chains, Monte Carlo methods. Characteristic functions, limit laws.


### Semester 1

**APSC 310** - *Co-operative Work Placement*

Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the Faculty of Applied Science and the Co-operative Education Program.

**ENPH 459** - *Engineering Physics Project I*

Project planning, management and reporting. This course involves writing a project proposal, carrying out an open-ended Engineering project, and reporting the results both orally and in writing.


## Summer Session (2016)

**APSC 210** - *Co-operative Work Placement*

Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the Faculty of Applied Science and the Co-operative Education Program.

**EXCH 381** - *Study Abroad Program*

## Winter Session (2015-2016)

### Semester 2

**PHYS 350** - *Applications of Classical Mechanics*

Review of principles. Particle mechanics: Euler's equations, tops and gyroscopes, motion of the Earth, Lagrangian and Hamiltonian methods. Variational principles in optics and mechanics, Liouville's theorem and statistical mechanics. The relationship between classical and quantum mechanics.

**CPEN 312** - *Digital Systems and Microcomputers*

Data representation in digital computers; boolean algebra; the design and optimization and implementation of combinatorial and sequential circuits; modern digital circuit technologies; memory and programmable logic devices; organization and operation of microcomputers; data/address bus organization; input-output interfacing.

**MECH 280** - *Introduction to Fluid Mechanics*

Fluid properties; statics; kinematics, dynamics, energy, and momentum principles for control volumes; dimensional analysis and similarity; laminar and turbulent flow; pipe flow; principles of centrifugal pumps.

**APSC 278** - *Engineering Materials*

Atomic bonding; crystal structures and imperfections; properties of metals, ceramics, polymers, wood, concrete and fibre composite materials; selection of materials; corrosion; mechanical testing and heat treatment.

**APSC 279** - *Engineering Materials Laboratory*

Atomic bonding; crystal structures and imperfections; properties of metals, ceramics, polymers, wood, concrete and fibre composite materials; selection of materials; corrosion; mechanical testing and heat treatment.

**MATH 305** - *Applied Complex Analysis*

Functions of a complex variable, Cauchy-Riemann equations, contour integration, Laurent series, residues, integrals of multi-valued functions, Fourier transforms.

**PHYS 304** - *Introduction to Quantum Mechanics*

Principles and applications of quantum mechanics, wave mechanics, the Schroedinger equation, expectation values, Hermitian operators, commuting observables, one-dimensional systems, harmonic oscillators, angular momentum, three dimensional systems, time dependent perturbations.


### Semester 1

**MATH 257** - *Partial Differential Equations*

Introduction to partial differential equations; Fourier series; the heat, wave and potential equations; boundary-value problems; numerical methods.

**MECH 325** - *Mechanical Design I*

Selection of flexible drives, bearings, hydraulic system components, and couplings. Design of bolted joints and power screws. Design and selection of gears, gear trains, and mechanisms.

**MECH 326** - *Mechanical Design II*

Design of shafts and welded joints. Fatigue and fracture considerations in design: failure types, failure under static and dynamic loading, fatigue failure, crack initiation, and propagation. Introduction to the FEM in mechanical design.

**MECH 360** - *Mechanics of Materials*

Beam deflections, singularity functions; use of tabulated solutions; column buckling; Castigliano's theorem, statically indeterminate beams, bending of beams with asymmetric cross-sections, shear centre; principal stresses and stress invariants in three dimensions.

**PHYS 301** - *Electricity and Magnetism*

Maxwell's equations and their applications, electrical fields and potentials of static charge distributions, current, fields of moving charges, magnetic fields, electromagnetic induction.

**ELEC 221** - *Signals and Systems*

Complex numbers, LTI systems, convolution sum, discrete-time Fourier series and transforms, z-transform, sampling, introduction to filtering and modulation, feedback systems, stability.

**CONS 210** - *Visualizing Climate Change*

Introduction to climate change through the lens of local landscapes and future scenarios, using visual media to communicate the underlying science and psychology, and engage communities in local climate change solutions.


## Summer Session (2015)

**PHYS 250** - *Introduction to Modern Physics*

Wave-particle duality of matter, special relativity, processes in atomic, nuclear and solid state, and introduction to quantum mechanical devices and techniques.

**ENPH 253** - *Introduction to Instrument Design*

Practice in engineering design and instrument development including mechanical and electrical design, and communications with sensors, actuators. Micro-controller implementation and system integration. Engineering design review process and presentations. Engineering communication in design and product release.

**ENPH 257** - *Heat and Thermodynamics*

Thermometry, thermal properties of matter; heat transfer by conduction; convection and radiation; kinetic theory of gases and gas laws; heat engines; refrigeration; change of state; first and second laws of thermodynamics.

**ENPH 270** - *Mechanics II*

Dynamics: systems of particles, kinematics and kinetics of rigid bodies (plane motion), energy and momentum, rotating coordinates.

**MATH 307** - *Applied Linear Algebra*

Applications of linear algebra to problems in science and engineering; use of computer algebra systems for solving problems in linear algebra.


## Winter Session (2014-2015)

### Semester 2

**APSC 110** - *Co-operative Work Placement*

Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the Faculty of Applied Science and the Co-operative Education Program.

### Semester 1

**MATH 255** - *Ordinary Differential Equations*

Review of linear systems; nonlinear equations and applications; phase plane analysis; Laplace transforms; numerical methods.

**MATH 217** - *Multivariable and Vector Calculus*

Partial differentiation, extreme values, multiple integration, vector fields, line and surface integrals, the divergence theorem, Green's and Stokes' theorems. Intended for students in Honours Physics and Engineering Physics.

**MECH 260** - *Introduction to Mechanics of Materials*

Statically determinate frames and trusses; normal and shear stresses and strains; shear force and bending moment diagrams; theory of beam bending, torsion of circular rods; transformation of stress and strain in two and three dimensions, Mohr's circle; yield and ultimate failure criteria.

**EECE 252** - *Linear Circuits*

Basic concepts and analysis techniques in the context of electric and electronic circuits. Treatment of RLC circuits, phasors, op-amps. Introduction to nonlinear circuit elements.

**ENPH 259** - *Experimental Techniques*

Basic experimental techniques in acquisition, analysis, and presentation and communication of data and technical results.

**EECE 210** - *Principles of Software Construction*

Design, implementation, reasoning about software systems: abstraction and specification of software, testing, verification, abstract data types, object-oriented design, type hierarchies, concurrent software design. Course taught in Java.



## Summer Session (2014)

**PHIL 101** - *Introduction to Philosophy*

Basic problems and methods of philosophy. Topics such as the nature and scope of human knowledge, the existence of God, and the relationship between mind and body.

## Winter Session (2013-2014)

Semester 2

**PHYS 170** - *Mechanics I*

Statics of particles, equilibrium or rigid bodies, rigid body statics and internal forces, trusses; kinematics: rectilinear motion; dynamics: Newton's second law, friction, impulse, momentum, work and energy.

**MATH 152** - *Linear Systems*

2D and 3D geometry, vectors and matrices, eigenvalues and vibration, physical applications. Laboratories demonstrate computer solutions of large systems.

**MATH 101** - *Integral Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering*

The definite integral, integration techniques, applications, modeling, infinite series.

**PHYS 153** - *Elements of Physics*

Thermometry, thermal properties of matter, heat, oscillations, waves, sound, wave optics; geometrical optics, elementary electricity and magnetism, simple DC and AC circuits.

**APSC 150** - *Engineering Case Studies*

Application of scientific principles and technical knowledge to practical problems. Introduction to the engineering design process and to engineering graphics.


### Semester 1

**APSC 122** - *Introduction to Engineering*

Non-credit course designed to introduce students to Engineering. Information on the Faculty, the profession and the particular skills and type of work done by practicing engineers in different disciplines.

**APSC 160** - *Introduction to Computation in Engineering Design*

Analysis and simulation, laboratory data acquisition and processing, measurement interfaces, engineering tools, computer systems organization, programming languages.

**MATH 100** - *Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering*

Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization.

**PHYS 153** - *Elements of Physics*

Thermometry, thermal properties of matter, heat, oscillations, waves, sound, wave optics; geometrical optics, elementary electricity and magnetism, simple DC and AC circuits.

**CHEM 154** - *Chemistry for Engineering*

Chemical bonding, properties of matter. Chemical thermodynamics with applications to phase equilibria, aqueous equilibria and electrochemistry. Processes at surfaces.

**ENGL 112** - *Strategies for University Writing*

Study and application of the principles of university-level discourse, with emphasis on expository and persuasive writing. Essays and exercises are required.


## *Started school at the University of British Columbia*
## September 2013


This page was last updated on March 31 2018
